---
layout: post
title: "2020 AWSM CS Day 1"
date: 2020-06-23
---
## Day 1
peardeck.com
- has 'how are you feeling today' question

One thing that worked well for classroom: 
Giving 1-on-1 instruction/help.
I made lesson plans and a general/public discussion board where students could ask questions, I respond to them (so everyone could see my responses instead of having to respond to email 1 by 1), and if students need any extra help I would respond to emails/phone calls/video conferencing

1 thing need help with: planning/prepping for school year


Framing in the Classroom
Framing: creating a context or perspective that strongly influences interpretation of events
https://www.ncwit.org/resources/how-do-you-recruit-or-retain-women-through-inclusive-pedagogy/framing-supportive-classroom

Preface: People in this class have varying backgrounds and experience with programming.
Question: How much experiencc e do you have with programming?
Scale: 1 - Nothing, I've never programmed; 4 - A lot: I have learned >1 programming language
Downplay the value of experience: display less learning
Make it clear that no prior knowledge is expected, but that students vary in their background

Preface: Broadly speaking, we might characterize people based on how confident and outgoing they appear from the viewpoint of others. Of course, this has nothing to do with what people actually know or are capable of, just how they present themselves to others. How often are the following statements true of you?
I'm quet in class: I generally prefer to have other people talk adn I just listen. If other take charge, that's fine with me.
I'm loud in class: I often learn by hearing myself talk during classroom discussion. I don't mind being the center of attention.
Scale: 1 = Never, 4 = Always

Preface: We can broadly characterize people based on how they reaect to making mistakes. Tell us where you lie between these two extremes.
I hate mistakes. Making mistakes makes me feel stupid. It's even worse if it happens in front of people.
I like mistakes. You can't learn without making some mistakes. Most mistakes are nothing to be ashamed of or worried about.
Scale: 1 = Never, 4 = Always
People learn through trial and error; this classroom is a safe environment to make mistakes students can learn from. Mistkaes contriibute to everyone's learning. 

Preface: Explain class content and what students will learn, but reiterate that they are not expected to know it now. Explain how you have designed for their learning, but emphasize their need for hard work (growth mindset). Connect the learning to real life. 
I expect to learn a lot in this class.
I expect to improve my discussion skills.
I expect to work hard toward a good course outcome. 
I expect to be able to use what I learn in this class in other classes, at work, or in college.
Scale: 1 = Strongly Disagree; 4 = Strongly Agree

Open ended question - "What are you excited about"
Turn into a word cloud

Preface: learning to program can be hard, but you think they are up to the challenge. All students will need help. Students are not alone in their concerns. You are teaching the course in a way that help will always be availa le.
Question: What will you need help with?


Discuss what will students know as a result of taking this class that can benefit them in the future. Acknowledge that they may be looking forward to just getting through the class. 

Not a mistake - just a booboo. 


Maintaining the Frame:
- Avoid favoring the most vocal students by random selection with 'trading cards'
- Adjust classroom dynamics with think/pair/share, small group problem solving
- Use collaborative learning for application and practice to reinforce belief that students can and should learn from each other

Have kids create their own cards? Or maybe on back of the card make a drawing + write a quote. (NO: NEEDS TO BE ANONYMOUS)


What are the right questions for your survey?
What pedagogical techniques are possible for your class?

A lot of students aren't going to be there first day of class. Maybe do it first day and reintroduce day 2. Maybe first week of class - get students used to being thoughtful. Do it throughout the first week of class. 

---------
Planning on Classroom Framing

Day 1: Introduce w/ questions
Change some of the words to make it more applicable to my students. 
How much do you know about technology (maybe not just programming related). Machine Learning, data science, game programming, Minecraft modding, etc. 
"I don't know" is a valid answer - however if you stop there in an interview you will not get hired. How you go from there is what determines whether you get hired or not. 
Regiment of debugging activities. "Code Awful" - try to fix. Even if you don't know how to fix it, at least be able to identify it. 

Day 2: Reinforce Day 1, introduce new questions. 
Day 3-5: Continue to reinforce.

Reinforce as needed. 


## Day 2
### Remote Learning w/ the AWSM in CS Strategies

### iscussion and Exemplar Revision

### Lesson Revisions

## Day 3
1. Select a PDSA that can be implemented in person and under remote instruction.
2. Select a PDSA that can be completed in the Fall semester.
3. FYI - We will be doing an additional PDSA in Spring 2021 so if you have a lesson modification that fits with a spring timeline, save it for later.
PDSA focusing on my classroom. 

Summer/Fall: Designing classroom space 
Fall/Spring: Meeting with other CS teachers, proposing new streamlined course pathway.

## Day 4
Presentation from 10-10:45: 
1) Tell us why you chose your PDSA--what was the cause/challenge you decided to focus on and why. 

2) Walk everyone through the planning part of the PDSA. 
What is your plan? 
What is needed to execute your plan? 
Who all is involved? 
How does this relate to the framing your classroom? 
How does this span the scope of remote and f2f instruction? 

3) Walk us through other parts of your PDSA. 
What will be important for doing your PDSA? 
What did you learn from last year’s PDSA that you will consider/incorporate into this fall’s PDSA? 

4) Have a question for the group that you want specific feedback on (even if you think you don’t have one--have one!).

Feedback: Everyone is to provide at least 2 pieces of feedback in the glow column, and 2 pieces of feedback in the grow column. Each member of the group will then be required to provide one piece of verbal feedback that is either a glow or grow---that takes a 30,000 ft. look at the presenter’s PDSA

6-7 minute presentations per teacher
