One thing I should mention is we lived very close to UTMB. I remember going on walks in the park, going to the beach, and most of all my grandparents taking care of me. My parents tell me I didn't talk until I was 3 years old. They were worried about me because apparently babies talk earlier. However, I may have just been confused because I heard the Shandong dialect from my grandparents, English from others, and Chinese from still others.

My next memory is of going to William Temple preschool, where I quickly made friends with others in this daycare. The daycare people loved me and I really enjoyed my time there. I obtained a GameBoy at some point in time and quickly made a name for myself with my Yellow version and Silver version. I remember spending countless hours playing Pokemon, helping train other peoples' pokemon, and playing more Pokemon to the point where I could go through the entire cave between Cerulean city and Celadon city without Flash. Greatest accomplishment of that time. 

Sometime later we moved across the island to the west side where I started Kindergarten at Oppe Elementary. We lived literally one block away from Seawall and the beach, and we spent many days on the sand. I remember one time going crabbing with my family and when we ate the crabs, they were full of sand. Obviously we hadn't cleaned them properly, it was our first time crabbing I think and so we didn't know better, but I still have fond memories of that time. I don't think we ever went crabbing again after that.

Sometime in my elementary school years, we visited my extended family in China. I honestly don't remember too much, but I'll share some snapshots of things I do recall. I remember visiting my dad's family and being on the farm. My dad grew up as a farmer, not even the oldest, and was the first in his entire village to go to college. Which is remarkable in and of itself - my dad is not the oldest boy in his family, so theoretically his older brother should have been the one to go to school. However his older brother gave the opportunity to my dad. Anyways, we were eating cooked snails and I remember it being quite good. I was enjoying myself until my dad passed me a huge snail. I bit into it only to retch in disgust as it was full of sand. That was the last one I tried. I also remember an outhouse and having to relieve myself in a hole.
We visited my mom's side as well. I remember my older uncle having a motorcycle, my middle uncle faintly, and my young uncle giving us a ton of mango juice. I also remember one time my family was going to go out but I didn't want to go so they left me with a cousin. I think I napped for a bit but then grew worried when they didn't come back. I think I was worried about being abandoned at this point in time. 

Other memories from K-2. Going to afterschool YMCA program. Mrs. Human Yellow class, Mrs. Lively 2nd grade and winning Around-the-World Multiplication tournaments so often (and hogging the prizes) that she made me hold up the flash cards for other students. Volleyball in gym class. Tag, freeze tag. Fastest kids along with Gary. Andrew Liu and asthma. 